---
layout: post
title: Reverse engineering the Vuse vape ecosystem (pt 1)
date: 2023-07-23 00:00:23
categories: reverse-engineering
short_description: Introduction to the target, a crash course in BLE and some brief recon.
image_preview: https://github.com/mad-cat-lon.png
---
## Introduction 

British American Tobacco (BAT) is a company famous for trying to sell cigarettes to literally anyone, including [North Korea](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-65393223),  [children](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2013/oct/28/british-american-tobacco-apologises-for-advertising-e-cigarette-in-kids-app), and [jihadists in Mali](https://www.occrp.org/en/loosetobacco/british-american-tobacco-fights-dirty-in-west-africa). Unfortunately, despite BAT's diverse portfolio of target markets, cigarettes have been on the decline for several decades, whereas vaping has become increasingly common. In order to enter this highly competitve market, BAT has been successfully selling disposable pod-system vapes under a subsidiary named Vuse, formerly known as Vype. The low price, long battery life and high build quality with brushed metal shells makes Vuse vapes a popular choice with many people (including myself). 

BAT has recently included BLE capabilities into their products, claiming that the improved security of Vuse vapes makes them an effective solution to the underage vaping epidemic. Through the MyVuse companion app that connects to the vape, users can perform role-based access control (lol), set recharge reminders, track usage and location, and adjust the resistance of their coil. In this series of writeups, I will document and explain the process I took to reverse engineer the target device's hardware, firmware and companion app. I have very little experience with reversing/exploiting Android applications, nor do I know much about BLE, so if you find some mistakes let me know! 

## BLE warmup

### What is BLE?
Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), also known as Bluetooth Smart, is a power-efficient variant of the classic Bluetooth technology, designed for short-range communication between devices. Developed by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG), BLE is popular in applications that require infrequent short bursts of data transmission, prioritizing low power consumption over high data transfer rates.

### The GATT
The Generic Attribute Profile (GATT) is a key part of the Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) protocol stack, serving as a framework that defines how two BLE devices transfer data back and forth using concepts known as "Services" and "Characteristics". 
In the GATT model, the server holds a collection of data, organized as a series of services, and the client reads from or writes to these services. Each service contains several characteristics. A characteristic can be imagined as a data type and consists of a value (the actual piece of data) and may include one or more descriptors, which further describe or control the characteristic.
A crucial aspect of GATT is its hierarchical data structure. The hierarchy begins with a 'Profile', which is the highest level and represents a collection of services. Services, the next level down, are collections of characteristics. Finally, characteristics are made up of a declaration, a value, and descriptors. This model allows for efficient data organization and easy data access.

GATT operates with the Attribute Protocol (ATT), which is designed for small, resource-constrained devices and is optimized for low power usage. ATT oversees the transportation of small pieces of data, known as 'attributes' between the server and client. Each attribute in a server has a unique handle, a UUID (Universally Unique Identifier), which the client uses to request the data.

The process of a client discovering the layout of attributes on a server is known as "Service Discovery". The client can find out what services a server offers, each service's characteristics, and the properties of those characteristics. This can include read, write, notify, and others.

GATT also implements security through attribute permissions, which require authentication or authorization processes to be completed before a client can read from or write to certain characteristics.

## Modern nicotine addiction terms 
- **Pod system:** a type of vape where the device is rechargeable and disposable, self-contained pods of e-juice are bought to be inserted into it. 
- **Coil:** the component that heats up to vaporize the e-juice. More resistance (ohms) means more heat from the coil. Disposable pods have built-in coils. 

# Reversing MyVuse

## Initial setup 
An interesting quirk of MyVuse is that it is only available in iOS as a webapp through a browser called [Nuviu](https://www.nuviu-browser.com/): this is likely because the App Store won't give them the level of permissions they use in their Android application. To keep things simple, I will be focusing on the [Android version](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.bat.myvuse.mobile) only. Decompilation will later show that the app is running on a React Native frontend with Firebase as the backend, which is a pretty common stack for use cases like these. 

### Emulation 
For some reason I couldn't get this to run on any Android version higher than 11 in Android Studio. I thought there was some kind of antiVM action, but after about 15 minutes of hitting myself I landed on the correct version. Installing the application in the emulated device is as simple as dragging and dropping the APK - thanks Google. 

### Patching and repacking the APK 
Inspecting app HTTPS traffic is probably one of the easiest ways to reverse engineer it, so I installed [mitmproxy](https://mitmproxy.org/) and configured my proxy in Android Studio. However, after a few minutes of network silence I realized that MyVuse uses [certificate pinning](https://ivision.com/blog/what-is-certificate-pinning/) . Certificate pinning forces the app to validate the server's certificate against a known good copy, which is supposed to prevent easy MITM attacks like the one I was trying to perform. Thankfully, [apk-mitm](https://github.com/shroudedcode/apk-mitm) automates the whole tedious process of editing the network security configuration, disabling certificate pinning, signing the APK, etc.  and I was able to start capturing packets. 

## Preliminary recon 

### Sniffing account creation traffic -  ding ding!
Now that the application has been MITMed, I opened it up in the emulator, turned on `mitmproxy` and began to poke at it to see how it would respond.
MyVuse requires you to create an account before you can connect it to your device. The app asks for an incredible amount of personal information that almost amounts to what carders call "fullz": email, phone number, address, legal name, etc. Let's take a look at how they use this info. 

The first thing I noticed is that HTTP requests were being made to the host `imperial-auth-api.wearefuturemaker.ca`.  Trying to access the domain brings you to a Netlify 404 page - maybe a domain hijack is possible here? A WHOIS on `wearefuturemaker.ca` tells us that the registrant is Imperial Tobacco in Montreal (a subsidiary of BAT), and subdomain enumeration also finds the QA API. We'll investigate this later. 

The first API call is a GET to `/users/email-exists/myemailhere@sharklasers.com` when the user enters their email. This is pretty self-explanatory. Note that user enumeration ([CWE-204](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/204.html)) would be pretty easy here if it weren't for Cloudflare, since we could run through a huge list of dumped emails to identify which ones have an account on MyVuse. 

The second API call is a POST request to `/users/myvuse-create`. The payload looks like this:
```json
{
  "storeName": "vype",
  "user": {
    "email": "tesdjfjf@sharklasers.com",
    "password": "Testingpass123!",
    "firstName": "John",
    "lastName": "Cog",
    "dob": "1998/02/03",
    "phoneNumber": "6472643390",
    "address": "4544 Crosswinds Dr Mississauga, ON, L5V 1G3",
    "geocodedAddress": true,
    "city": "Mississauga",
    "province": "ON",
    "country": "Canada",
    "postalCode": "L5V 1G3",
    "myVuseEverLogged": false,
    "myvuseConnected": true,
    "emailSubscriptionVype": false,
    "vuseItcanEmailOptIn": false,
    "vuseItcanAppOptIn": false,
    "consentVype": true,
    "source": "myvuse",
    "darkMarket": false
  }
}
```
And the response (which failed) looks like this:
```json
{
  "error": {
    "transUnion": {
      "success": false,
      "res": {},
      "time": 362,
      "message": "Could not validate age"
    },
    "equifax": {
      "success": false,
      "res": {
        "attributes": {
          "transactionKey": "0000000006252000009681214"
        },
        "AssesmentComplete": {
          "OutputAddress": {
            "attributes": {
              "addressType": "Current",
              "isStandardized": "true"
            },
            "HybridAddress": {
              "AddressLine": "4544 CROSSWINDS DR",
              "City": "MISSISSAUGA",
              "Province": "ON",
              "PostalCode": "L5V1G3"
            }
          },
          "ReasonCode": [
            {
              "attributes": {
                "description": "No Credit File located/or poor match score"
              },
              "$value": "45"
            },
            {
              "attributes": {
                "description": "Phone record located - Good match"
              },
              "$value": "63"
            },
            {
              "attributes": {
                "description": "Your inquiry did not result in any phone, address or SIN warnings"
              },
              "$value": "94"
            }
          ],
          "Score": "0",
          "RiskStrategyDecision": "N",
          "AtomicScores": {
            "SimpleInteractiveQueryScore": "-1"
          }
        }
      },
      "time": 546,
      "message": "Could not validate age"
    }
  },
  "method": "idVerification"
}
```

What's happening here is pretty obvious: BAT is doing some kind of soft pull from credit reporting agencies as a form of ID verification, as evidenced by the `transUnion` and `equifax` fields in the response. This makes creating a test account kind of tricky, but hopefully someone will let me borrow their identity so I can make an account. 
Also, note the `darkMarket` field in the request. Could this be a form of counterfeit/theft protection? I wasn't able to find any reference to this field in the decompiled code, so any ideas are welcome. 

In the next post, I will decompile MyVuse, perform a bit of static analysis, reverse interesting code segments, and build up a better picture of how the application works at a low level. 